He ran the Cardiff border shkita. Again, in Cardiff we used to do our own shkita.
So there was a ritual slaughtering took place in Cardiff and it was under the guidance of Rabbi
Rogoznitsky. When I was growing up there used to be a ritual slaughter in Hebrew called a shokhet
and they used to be employed by the community on a full-time basis, shokhet in Cardiff. Even
to digress even further, in Myrtha Tidvill they also used to do their own shkita and there was
a minister called there, the minister I can remember, the minister of shokhet was Reverend
Fine and his son who lives just around the corner of his called Rabbi Fine who was a minister in
Southgate and Cockfosters. So yes, there was rituals. My father was very adamant that had to
keep on going. There was a ritual slaughtering done in Cardiff. We used to have our own shokhtim,
the literal slaughterers and many of those have got family or are still in contact with
and are in London. So Grape was a child that he was involved in. We're not just talking chickens
here, no, we're talking animals, cows. To the extent that when I was already in my 18th because
I was driving a car and my parents were away once on holiday and I happened to be at home and I was
giving the Rabbi, Rabbi Rogoznitsky, a lift back from Cathedral Road Synagogue one morning and he
said to me, Adrian have you got any time to spare? And I said yes. Why? He said I want to go and
check up on the shokhtim, on the slaughtering. I said fine. So I said but Rabbi you're old and
the Rabbi suffered from Parkinsonism and he couldn't walk very well. I said well,
Rob, how are you going to get in and out of the slaughterhouse? He said don't worry,
I'll sort that out. So we went there. The shokhtim that day was a Rabbi Smith from who lived in Brighton
and we got there and he said go and tell the slaughtermen I've arrived. We went to tell the
slaughtermen we've arrived. They then came out with a chair. They put the Rabbi on a chair. They took
him all the way through on the chair. This is before I'd even had breakfast in the morning
and I then watched as they slaughtered at least two cows and then checked them because part of
the process of when they do the slaughtering you've got to do certain checks. You've got to check the
no blemishes on the lungs as an instance. So I watched as they slaughtered these two cows.
Another aside, a little smaller side, this Rabbi Smith who I just mentioned was a shokhtim, was an
old gentleman and he the shokhtim, my father in charge at the time, the slaughtermen said at one
point refused to work with him and they said Rabbi Smith I'm very sorry you're too old. We don't
trust you anymore. You're going to do damage. So he said to them that's fine. He said will you work
with me if we have a competition and I win? And they said what type of competition? So he said if
we have a push-up competition and I win, he said that you bring your fittest man and I will do
push-ups on the floor against him now. If I win, I stay on. If he wins, I will leave immediately.
Rabbi Smith was working the next day. He used to walk regularly from Stanford Hill to Golders Green.
He was a very fit gentleman. He might not have looked fit but he was. I also remember being in
the Rabbi's house talking about shkita when in order to do shkita you have to use what they call
a chalif which is a special ritual knife. That knife is going to be razor razor sharp and have
no indentations. You check that by running it against your thumbnail. Again the Rabbi was an
old dodgery as I would say. I had all respect for him. He wasn't dodgery but that's the way I describe
him and he then ran his back of his nail against this knife to check it was kosher and it was there.
So that's my story about shkita. Where was the slaughtering taking place? The slaughtering was
taking place in Cardiff in I don't remember where the slaughterhouse was. I thought not mistakenly
it was in town somewhere. There was a slaughter. It was a non-Jewish slaughterhouse which was a
section and in order to do Jewish slaughtering you have a pen and the animal is then turned upside
down in the pen and its neck is sliced. And that was done in I remember going there. I can't
remember exactly where it was. I think it might have been in Canton. I can't remember offhand though.